[Guardian Link](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2010/aug/15/michael-hofmann-learn-another-language)
[Analysis](https://poetryprofcom.files.wordpress.com/2020/09/sample-paper-1-opinion-piece.pdf
### Article (Raw)

In 2004, the Labour government removed modern languages from the "core curriculum". That must be "core" as in "apple core". For it meant the study of a foreign language is no longer compulsory at schools past age 14. Theoretically, primary schools are supposed to introduce languages instead, but that's like the road sign with the big black arrow pointing one way and the skinny little red arrow going the other. A classic "mixed message", with a brute practical impact and a feeble sign of wouldn't-it-be-nice idealism-on-the-cheap.

So what happened? Schools and schoolchildren ditch languages like there's no tomorrow. Just as we've become adept at finding the shortest and the quickest and the most economical, so we can sniff out anything that's not a doss. "Grammar? Pronunciation? Different alphabet? Spelling? Accents? Umlauts? Ooh, no thanks – don't fancy that." The "fascination of what's difficult" may be Yeats, but it's a long time since it's had much pull as an idea. Modern languages have become, in the awful semi-euphemism "twilight subjects" – you study them on your own, after school's out.

Auf Wiedersehen, Dept, as the witticism goes. (German suffers especially badly. Numbers taking it have halved in seven years.) At 60% of state schools, three-quarters of 14-year-olds are not taking a modern language. Meanwhile, the take-up in primary schools is mysteriously delayed. Language teachers are not so easy to find and, indeed, where would they come from, given that no one's studying languages any more? Employers are becoming unhappy; their science and business and IT agenda has been overplayed.

It turns out that these "redundant" languages can be jolly useful after all; only now it's much easier to find foreign nationals with English than Brits with another language. EU jobs earmarked for Britons are left unfilled because the entrance exams – another "French plot" – are supposed to be taken in a second language; the new foreign secretary duly harrumphs across to Brussels to level the playing field (ie, remove these irritating goalposts) with that mixture of put-upon and self-righteous that we get from our politicians when they ought to be feeling and expressing straightforward shame.

It looks like an education problem, but it's not an education problem. Education is just where things get shunted that society doesn't want to deal with or can't deal with. A dangerous dearth of respect in society? Let them teach it at school (don't ask me how, call it civics). That drearily prevalent, invertedly snobbish contempt for articulacy? More, better English lessons. An insufficiently integrated immigrant population? History. No sense of other people, other cultures, other languages? Go back to teaching the languages.

Education is a field hospital, where the little troops are patched up and turned round and sent back to fight in the great economic war that seems to be all that's left of life. Respect, articulateness and awareness of others are all related and what greater disrespect can there be than not speaking to others in their languages? Not even thinking of it? Not even being embarrassed about not thinking it? Junking the requirement to learn, at 14, just past the age of crayons. How much respect does that bespeak? How much respect does that even allow? How can you hope to understand others while requiring them to speak to you in their English?

On the global political level, think of the blundering, insular, peremptory and oddly irrelevant posture of the Anglo-American powers, how spooked and baffled and disliked they are over so much of the world. Think of the harping on about the "special relationship" – not so much special, as the only one possible for two such done-up wallflowers. Surely, apart from anything else, with more language-learning, there would have been fewer wars over the past decades?

On the individual level, think of the loss of possibility, the preordained narrowness of a life encased in one language, as if you were only ever allowed one, as if it were your skin in which you were born. Or your cage. That's your lot. When the great Australian poet Les Murray said: "We are a language species", he didn't mean English. We think and are and have our being in, and in and out of languages – and where's the joy and the richness, if you don't even have two to rub together? If you don't have another language, you are condemned to occupy the same positions, the same phrases, all your life. It's harder to outwit yourself, harder to doubt yourself, in just one language. It's harder to play.

There is this strange cluelessness of the English. The country is so rooted, so settled, one thinks it has survived everything others can throw at it, but it won't survive its own wildly irresponsible experiments on itself. The language, so comfortable, so free of rules, so smashed and contracted and knocked into a cocked hat. Who any longer knows the difference between "its" and "it's" or "may" and "might"? Who can spell "potatoes"? Not a greengrocer, that's for sure. Or a vice-president. Let's not even talk about vocabulary. English will become deformed and opaque if those using it haven't studied other languages. Already Browne, Milton, Gibbon, Ruskin, perhaps soon the much-invoked Orwell, are unreachably foreign. It's only the study of other languages that brought them within reach.

The case for learning another language, or having another language, though, is not that you need it to use and understand your own. Nor is it the banal, utilitarian one that it's good to be able to order a beer or a room in another country. It's not the vulgar economic one that it's good to be able to schmooze your takeover target or your foreign boss. It's that you're not making enough of your individual (or collective) human potential if you allow yourself to be enclosed by one language.

The so-called "world language", English, is spoken as a first language by just 7% of the world's inhabitants; 75% of people speak no English. Languages are some of the oldest, deepest, uncanniest, most thoughtful human inventions. A disdain for, or a lack of interest in, all the others does not seem to me to be a civilised or even a tolerable state of affairs. 

Foreigners will go on learning English, regardless. The British have an obligation, it seems to me, to reciprocate. Call it what you like – mutuality, courtesy, fair exchange, good practice. Not to do so is in every sense hateful. A self-exemption. A trusting in force and market, where – for once – force and market do not apply. A departure from international polity. A terminal and blazingly wrong conceit.

## Article (Filtered)

Schools and schoolchildren ditch languages like there's no tomorrow. Just as we've become adept at finding the shortest and the quickest and the most economical, so we can sniff out anything that's not a doss. "Grammar? Pronunciation? Different alphabet? Spelling? Accents? Umlauts? Ooh, no thanks – don't fancy that." Modern languages have become, in the awful semi-euphemism "twilight subjects" – you study them on your own, after school's out.

Education is a field hospital, where the little troops are patched up and turned round and sent back to fight in the great economic war that seems to be all that's left of life. Respect, articulateness and awareness of others are all related and what greater disrespect can there be than not speaking to others in their languages? How much respect does that even allow? How can you hope to understand others while requiring them to speak to you in their English?

Think of the loss of possibility, the preordained narrowness of a life encased in one language, as if you were only ever allowed one, as if it were your skin in which you were born. Or your cage. That's your lot. When the great Australian poet Les Murray said: "We are a language species", he didn't mean English. We think and are and have our being in, and in and out of languages – and where's the joy and the richness, if you don't even have two to rub together? If you don't have another language, you are condemned to occupy the same positions, the same phrases, all your life. It's harder to outwit yourself, harder to doubt yourself, in just one language. It's harder to play.

There is this strange cluelessness of the English. The country is so rooted, so settled, one thinks it has survived everything others can throw at it, but it won't survive its own wildly irresponsible experiments on itself. English will become deformed and opaque if those using it haven't studied other languages.

The case for learning another language, or having another language, though, is not that you need it to use and understand your own. Nor is it the banal, utilitarian one that it's good to be able to order a beer or a room in another country. It's not the vulgar economic one that it's good to be able to schmooze your takeover target or your foreign boss. It's that you're not making enough of your individual (or collective) human potential if you allow yourself to be enclosed by one language.

The so-called "world language", English, is spoken as a first language by just 7% of the world's inhabitants; 75% of people speak no English. 

Languages are some of the oldest, deepest, uncanniest, most thoughtful human inventions. A disdain for, or a lack of interest in, all the others does not seem to me to be a civilised or even a tolerable state of affairs. Foreigners will go on learning English, regardless. The British have an obligation, it seems to me, to reciprocate. Call it what you like – mutuality, courtesy, fair exchange, good practice. Not to do so is in every sense hateful. A self-exemption. A trusting in force and market, where – for once – force and market do not apply. A departure from international polity. A terminal and blazingly wrong conceit.
## EOC A Response

1. Identify the author's argument, main idea or thesis.

Hoffman presents the thoughtful idea that limiting oneself to speaking only English is “disrespect\[ful\]” of other cultures and limits one’s own intellectual abilities. He calls for schools to prioritize language as a core rather than a “twilight” subject, and he encourages readers to expose themselves to multiple languages to provide a richer mode of expression.

2. Explain the author's line of reasoning by identifying claims used to build the argument and the connections between them.

Hoffman starts by claiming that modern language subjects have become “twilight subjects” that aren’t prioritized in school. He criticizes the education system for de-emphasizing modern language subjects in favor of narrow economic goals. Adding onto this, he says that avoiding learning a foreign language is a great “disrespect” for the people one is conversing with. He argues that foreign languages allow one to understand and respect others’ cultures.

Not only is it disrespectful, Hofmann claims, but it “condemns” one to living a dull life, full of “the same positions, same phrases, all your life.”  In addition to this, he claims that, as monolinguals, “it’s harder to outwit yourself, harder to doubt yourself, … [i]t's harder to play." Here, he implies that it's difficult for monolinguals to challenge their perspectives and think creatively; however, there's a lack of evidence and neglects the counterargument that languages like English have great expressive capacity and still allow for versatile thought even for monolinguals.

Though in the first few paragraphs Hofmann advocates for one to learn foreign languages, he also warns against the reasons for doing so. He claims that it is not for the utilitarian, "to be able to order a beer or a room in another country," nor is it for economic reasons, to impress your foreign boss. Being monolingual, Hofmann argues, is a waste of human potential.

Hofmann then addresses a counterargument: namely, that English is the "world language," which allows one to communicate with basically everybody. He argues against this using statistical evidence: only 7% of the world's population are native English speakers, and that about three-quarters of the world does not speak English. An implicit purpose of this counterargument was to further emphasize that learning a foreign language is a sign of respect to foreigners; however, by stating this counterargument in a new paragraph without much context, he missed a chance to develop this idea further.

Finally, Hofmann expresses his admiration for the various languages. He reinstates his claim of respect, forcefully stating that not learning a foreign language is "in every sense hateful … a departure from international polity… a terminal and blazingly wrong conceit." Overall, Hofmann highlights important points about open-mindedness and cultural respect, though his argument could have even more persuasive value if more objective evidence was used.

3. Evaluate the effectiveness of the evidence the author uses to support the claims made in the argument. Evaluate the effectiveness of the evidence the author uses to support.

Hofmann's use of evidence and rhetoric in his article is overall not very suitable for his case.

The most obvious problem is the lack of credible sources. Most of his "evidence" consists of his own philosophical/logical reasoning forcefully presented with figurative language, tricolons, and rhetorical questions. For example, in his third paragraph, he claims that being monolingually English means that it restricts one's ability to think critically, but Hofmann has no objective evidence to support this. Research from professional linguists would have been suitable for this case.

In the rare locations where Hofmann does use evidence, the sources he presents lack credibility or lacks origin. He quotes the "great" Australian poet Les Murray on the line "We are a language species," but does not clarify the nature of Murray's expertise. He also overgeneralizes and assumes that Murray "didn't mean English." 

In addition, he uses statistical data to show that only a small percentage of the world's people speak English. While this would have been a good counterargument that English is the "world language," Hofmann does not include the origin of this source and does not develop the counterargument further. In other occasions, he also misses a few chances to address counterarguments and acknowledge the other side, especially in his paragraphs where he addresses the loss of potential for English monolinguals.

Overall, while Hofmann's case is a thoughtful one, the lack of evidence and missed chances for counterarguments undermine his argument.