Date: **CHANGE THIS**

## Raw Notes

- For any graph $y=f(x)$, there is a rate of change at which $y$ (or $f(x)$) changes for each unit of change in $x$. We express the change in y as $\Delta y$ and the change in x as $\Delta x$. We then express the slope of that specific place of rate of change as $\frac{\Delta y}{\Delta x}$, and we usually call it the slope.
- For linear functions, this rate of change is constant, but for non-linear functions, the rate of change changes. We can look at the average rate of change on an *interval* by taking two points $(a,f(a))$ and $(b,f(b))$, and calculating the slope: $$\frac{f\left(b\right)-f\left(a\right)}{b-a}$$
- This is the difference quotient! The problem is when we want to find the instantaneous rate of change, because the instantaneous rate of change uses one point, we have the following: $$\frac{f\left(a\right)-f\left(a\right)}{a-a}=\frac{0}{0}$$
	- We see that interdeterminant value and we know that we must use a limit. Let's define a second point next to a like so: $(a+h,f(a+h))$ and let h approach 0. Then, we can apply this formula to the difference quotient: $$\lim _{h\to 0}\frac{f\left(x+h\right)-f\left(x\right)}{\left(x+h\right)-x}=\lim _{h\to 0}\frac{f\left(x+h\right)-f\left(x\right)}{h}$$
	- This is the limit of the difference quotient!
	- There is another way to express it by just using that $b$ value we made earlier. What if we just made $b$ approach a? $$\lim_{b\to a}\frac{f\left(b\right)-f\left(a\right)}{b-a}$$
	- This is called the alternate form of the limit of the difference quotient.
- When given a table and asked to approximate the instantaneous rate of change, *note the word approximate*. You *must* use the approximation symbol, and do NOT use the formula for the instantaneous rate of change. An approximate value of the instantaneous rate of change is the *average* rate of change. 
- Free response answers do not need to be simplified.

## Key Takeaways

There are two ways to represent the tangent line of $f(x)$ at $(a,f(a))$:
1. The limit of the difference quotient: $$\lim _{h\to 0}\frac{f\left(x+h\right)-f\left(x\right)}{h}$$
2. The alternative limit of the difference quotient: $$\lim_{x\to a}\frac{f\left(x\right)-f\left(a\right)}{x-a}$$

When given a table and asked to approximate the instantaneous rate of change, *note the word approximate*. You *must* use the approximation symbol, and do NOT use the formula for the instantaneous rate of change. An approximate value of the instantaneous rate of change is the *average* rate of change. 

Free response answers do not need to be simplified.

## Questions

