Date: 08-**CHANGE THIS**-2023

## Raw Notes

- As done before, we can approximate the derivative (instantaneous rate of change) by getting the average rate of change on an interval. This is useful if you need to approximate the derivative when given a table of function values.
- We can find the derivative of a function at a specific x-value on the TI-84 by using the `nDeriv` function, using the X variable, entering in the x-value you want to find the derivative at, entering in the equation in terms of X and getting a good numerical approximation.
	- Use RADIAN mode on your calculator.
- Free response numeric answers do not need to be simplified.
- For decimal answers, include at least 3 decimal places and don't round intermediate answers.
- When given a graph of $f$ and asked to determine a possible graph of $f'$, you should identify the following:
	- When there is a horizontal tangent of $f$ (the cup or the hill shape that represents the local minima or maxima), that is when $f'=0$. This means that the correct graph of $f'$ should have zeros at those points.
	- Using those zeros, find intervals of which $f$ is increasing or decreasing.
		- If $f$ is increasing, $f'$ should be positive on that interval.
		- If $f$ is decreasing, $f'$ should be negative on that interval.
- When explaining the meaning of a derivative at a point, you should explain that the derivative represents a *rate* at which the *noun* is changing including *units* at a specific *time* (RNUT) (will be covered more in Unit 4.01)
- It is important to make connections between the mathematical vocabulary using rates of change, the mathematical expressions or notations, and what these tell you about the behavior of the graph of the function.

## Key Takeaways

When given a graph of $f$ and asked to determine a possible graph of $f'$, you should identify the following:
- When there is a horizontal tangent of $f$ (the cup or the hill shape that represents the local minima or maxima), that is when $f'=0$. This means that the correct graph of $f'$ should have zeros at those points.
- Using those zeros, find intervals of which $f$ is increasing or decreasing.
	- If $f$ is increasing, $f'$ should be positive on that interval.
	- If $f$ is decreasing, $f'$ should be negative on that interval.

When explaining the meaning of a derivative at a point, you should explain that the derivative represents a *rate* at which the *noun* is changing including *units* at a specific *time* (RNUT) (will be covered more in Unit 4.01)

It is important to make connections between the mathematical vocabulary using rates of change, the mathematical expressions or notations, and what these tell you about the behavior of the graph of the function.
## Questions

