Date: 08-16-2023
## Raw Notes

- We can evaluate limits of piecewise functions using left and right sided limits algebraically.
- Refresher: $f(x)$ has a limit at $x=a$ if the following equality holds: $$\lim_{x\to a^-}f(x)=\lim_{x\to a^+}f(x)$$
- We can use this property to evaluate limits of piecewise functions. For example, consider this function: $$f(x)=\left\{\begin{array}{ll}-\frac{1}{2}x+4 & \text{if } x < 6 \\ x-5 & \text{if } x > 6\end{array}\right.$$
	- The value $f(6)$ doesn't actually exist, but we can realize that the left hand limit as x approaches 6 is the first element of the piecewise, the the right hand limit as x approaches six is the second element of the piecewise. In mathematical terms: $$\lim_{x\to 6^-}f(x)=-\frac{1}{2}x+4\Big|_{x=6},\lim_{x\to 6^+}f(x)=x-5\Big|_{x=6}$$
	- Since the left and right hand limits are equal, the limit exists: it is 1.
- There are certain theorems about limits; If $\lim_{x\to c}f(x)=L$ and $\lim_{x\to c}g(x)=M$:
	- Function multiplication and division: $$\lim_{x\to c}\left[f(x)g(x)\right]=L\cdot M,\lim_{x\to c}\left[\frac{f(x)}{g(x)}\right]=\frac{L}{M}\{\text{when }M\neq 0\}$$
		- From this, we can reasonably infer that $$\lim _{x\to c}\left[f\left(x\right)^b\right]=\left[\lim _{x\to c}f\left(x\right)\right]^b,b\in \mathbb{R}$$
	- Function addition and subtraction: $$\lim_{x\to c}\left[f(x)\pm g(x)\right]=L\pm M$$
	- These rules also work if you replace $c$ with $c^+$ or $c^-$.
- HOWEVER, if L or M do NOT EXIST, we CANNOT apply these theorems. We must find an alternative approach to investigate the limit.
- We can use properties of limits to determine the limits of functions composed of two or more functions. We can evaluate the left and right sided limits using the properties above (since you can replace $c$ with $c^+$ or $c^-$).
- IMPORTANT: If a limit L or a limit M does not exist, that doesn't mean a combination of those functions does not work.

## Key Takeaways

We can use properties of limits to evaluate certain functions.

Limit laws exist for a combination of different functions, but they are only applicable if the limits of the individual functions both exist. If they do not exist, other algebraic properties of limits must be used.

IMPORTANT: If a limit L or a limit M does not exist, that doesn't mean a combination of those functions does not work.

## Questions

