Date: 08-10-2023

## Raw Notes

- Average rate of change can help us understand instantaneous rate of change (IROC).
- Definition: **instant**
    - An infinitely small amount of time… ($\triangle t$ / change in t = 0)
- How do we find “average rate of change” (AROC)?
    - Average rate of change over an interval is the slope between the endpoints of the interval.
    - We are going to use this concept to understand how to find the instantaneous rate of change, when time is 0.
- Even though speed will fluctuate, we can calculate the average velocity by taking the distance travelled divided by the change in time.
- There is a paradox: how do we calculate the instantaneous rate of change if we don’t know how much distance was accumulated, and no time has elapsed (since it is an instant, after all)? Using the average velocity formula, this is $\frac{0}{0}$, and this is a weird idea, and we can’t actually do it.
- What we can do instead is approach the values for distance and time. What would happen when time gets really close to 0, and distance gets really close to 0, and calculate that?
- To approximate the instantaneous rate of time, we can take really small values of time (for example, $0.000001$ seconds), and take the distance travelled during that time, and use the average velocity formula.
- This doesn’t just apply to speed: If there is a function $f(t)$ and you graph it, what is the slope of the tangent line of $f(t)$ at a point $P$? The function can be approximated by taking sample points very close to that point $P$, and getting the slope of the line joining those two points.
- If there is a function $f(t)$, graphically, numerically, verbally, or analytically represented, to approximate the instantaneous rate of change of $f(t)$ at a value $t$, the approximation is as follows: $$\frac{f\left(t+\triangle t\right)-f\left(t-\triangle t\right)}{t+\triangle t-(t-\triangle t)}=\frac{f\left(t+\triangle t\right)-f\left(t-\triangle t\right)}{2\triangle t}$$

## Key Takeaways

The instantaneous rate of change of a function is the slope of the line tangent to the function is the slope of the line tangent to the function at that point.

We can approximate instantaneous rates of change by finding average rates of change over small intervals.

If there is a function $f(t)$, graphically, numerically, verbally, or analytically represented, to approximate the instantaneous rate of change of $f(t)$ at a value t, the approximation is as follows: $$\frac{f\left(t+\triangle t\right)-f\left(t-\triangle t\right)}{t+\triangle t-(t-\triangle t)}=\frac{f\left(t+\triangle t\right)-f\left(t-\triangle t\right)}{2\triangle t}$$
## Questions

- In the example shown with the function $P(t)$, the estimate is done by taking a sample point to the left and to the right ($t=20.1$ and $t=19.9$) of the point on $P(t)$ at $t=20$. What would happen if the points were at $t=20$ and $t=20.1$, or some other t value other than $20.1$ that is close to and greater than $t=20$? What if it was smaller than $t=20$? Would it approximate the slope better?