Date: 08-**CHANGE THIS**-2023

## Raw Notes

- From the AP Calculus Course and Exam Description (CED), a function is continuous on an interval if the function is continuous at each point in the interval.
	- Basically, this means that there are no discontinuities on the interval.
- A question might ask you to list all intervals in which a function is continuous. To approach this, you have to first identify all the discontinuities and take a look at the parts in between.
- Continuity on an interval is important for important theories and theorems later in calculus.
- Some functions are continuous over their entire domains. The CED lists 6 types of functions that are so: polynomial, rational, power, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions.
	- It might seem weird that some of these functions are continuous over their entire domains. For example, $\tan x$ is a trigonometric function with an infinite number of vertical asymptotes. Then why does CED include $\tan x$ as a function that is continuous over its entire domain? This is because the function isn't actually defined at those points of discontinuity, and so those points aren't actually part of the domain.
	- This might get you thinking though: what functions *are* discontinuous over their entire domains? This is when the function value is *defined* at a point in their domain but is discontinuous at that point ($f(c)$ exists but $\lim_{x\to c}f(x)$ does not exist)
		- For example, the $\lfloor x \rfloor$ function's domain is all real numbers, but is discontinuous at every integer value.
- A function can be continuous...
	- for all real numbers
	- on their domain
	- for select intervals in their domain
- It is also important to examine whether a function is continuous at the endpoints of an interval.

## Key Takeaways

A function is continuous on an interval if there are no discontinuities on that interval.

A question might ask you to list all intervals in which a function is continuous. To approach this, you have to first identify all the discontinuities and take a look at the parts in between.

Continuity on an interval is important for important theories and theorems later in calculus.

A function can be continuous...
- for all real numbers
- on their domain
- for select intervals in their domain

It is also important to examine whether a function is continuous at the endpoints of an interval.

## Questions

