Date: 08-**CHANGE THIS**-2023

## Raw Notes

- The most obvious discontinuities that can be "removed" are removable discontinuities, informally known as "holes".
- For example, take this piecewise function: $$f(x)=\begin{cases}2 & x\neq 0 \\0 & x=0 \end{cases}$$
	- This function has a removable discontinuity at $x=0$, and the discontinuity can be "removed" by setting $f(0)=2$.
- Jump discontinuities and infinite discontinuities cannot be removed, however.
- Piecewise functions can have their parameters adjusted to be continuous. For example, let's say you had this piecewise function: $$f(x)=\begin{cases}2^{x+1} & x\leq 1 \\x+a & x>1 \end{cases}$$
	- Since both of the individual pieces are continuous, we can find when this function is continuous by setting $a$ to a value that would make the pieces connect. Plug in 1 to each of the pieces and solve for $a$: $$2^{1+1}=1+a\ \ \Rightarrow\ \  a=3$$
	- Therefore, when $a=3$, the function is continuous for its entire domain.
- We can also determine removable discontinuities and define a new function that does not have these discontinuities. For example, take this function: $$f(x)=\frac{3x^2+5x-2}{x^2-4x-12}$$
	- Factoring, we have: $$f(x)=\frac{(3x-1)(x+2)}{(x-6)(x+2)}$$
	- We immediately see that the $x+2$ term is causing a $\frac{0}{0}$ situation at $x=-2$, so that is a removable discontinuity. This means that this function is actually the following: $$f(x)=\frac{3x-1}{x-6}\text{ for }x\neq-2$$
	- To remove this discontinuity, we could just remove the $x\neq 2$ restriction, or find what the new $f(2)$ should be and create a piecewise: $$f(x)=\begin{cases}\frac{3x^2+5x-2}{x^2-4x-12} & x\neq -2 \\\frac{7}{8} & x=-2 \end{cases}$$

## Key Takeaways

The most obvious discontinuities that can be "removed" are removable discontinuities, informally known as "holes". Jump discontinuities and infinite discontinuities cannot be removed.

Piecewise functions can have their parameters adjusted to be continuous.

To "remove" removable discontinuities from algebraic $f(x)$, find which values would create a removable discontinuities and define a new piecewise function that would make the function continuous.

## Questions

