Date: 08-**CHANGE THIS**-2023

## Raw Notes

- A vertical asymptote can be defined using limits. Here is the formal definition verbally and mathematically:
	- Verbally: If $f(x)$ approaches $+\infty$ or $-\infty$ from the right or left, then the line $x=c$ is a vertical asymptote of the graph of $f(x)$.
	- Mathematically, there are two of my favorite ways to represent it (if either of these statements is true, there is a vertical asymptote at $x=c$):
		- Here is the first one: $$\lim_{x\to c^-}f(x)\text{ or }\lim_{x\to c^+}f(x)=\pm \infty$$
		- Here is the second: $$\lim_{x\to c^-}|f(x)|\text{ or }\lim_{x\to c^+}|f(x)|=\infty$$
- For rational functions, if at $x=c$, the numerator is non-zero and the denominator goes to 0, then there is a vertical asymptote at $x=c$. If *both* the numerator and denominator is 0 though, that's a removable discontinuity (probably)
- We can also determine vertical asymptotes with different representations.
	- Tabularly, if the values are getting closer and closer to negative/positive infinity, then the table *supports* that there is a vertical asymptote.
	- Verbally, we can see if the question tells you if the function is going to infinity or not.
- It is also possible for a function to have an infinite limit on only one side of a vertical asymptote. Consider the function $f(x)=2^{\frac{1}{x}}$, where the following statements are true: $$\lim_{x\to 0^-}f(x)=0,\ \lim_{x\to 0^+}f(x)=+\infty$$
- Most vertical asymptote and infinite limit questions will be asked on the MCQ.

## Key Takeaways

A vertical asymptote can be defined using limits. If $f(x)$ approaches $+\infty$ or $-\infty$ from the right or left, then the line $x=c$ is a vertical asymptote of the graph of $f(x)$. Mathematically, this is: $$\lim_{x\to c^-}f(x)\text{ or }\lim_{x\to c^+}f(x)=\pm \infty$$ or $$\lim_{x\to c^-}|f(x)|\text{ or }\lim_{x\to c^+}|f(x)|=\infty$$

For rational functions, if at $x=c$, the numerator is non-zero and the denominator goes to 0, then there is a vertical asymptote at $x=c$. If *both* the numerator and denominator is 0 though, that's a removable discontinuity (probably (99% tested and works))

We can also determine vertical asymptotes with different representations.
- Tabularly, if the values are getting closer and closer to negative/positive infinity, then the table *supports* that there is a vertical asymptote.
- Verbally, we can see if the question tells you if the function is going to infinity or not.

When the question says a function $f(x)$ can be made arbitrarily large at $x=c$, then it means that $\lim_{x\to c}f(x)=+\infty$.

Most vertical asymptote and infinite limit questions will be asked on the MCQ.

## Questions

