Date: 08-19-2023

## Raw Notes

- Mathematically, a horizontal asymptote is defined when the following statements are true, for a finite number $b$: $$\lim_{x\to +\infty}f(x)\text{ or }\lim_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=b$$
	- This means that when x gets arbitrary large (or closer to negative infinity), $f(x)$ gets closer and closer to $b$.
	- A horizontal asymptote *may* cross $f(x)$, contrary to popular belief. It only tells you what the end behavior of $f(x)$ is.
- With any rational function, the limit as x approaches positive or negative infinity will be:
	- A finite number $\frac{a}{c}$, where $a$ and $c$ are the coefficients of the term with the highest degree in the numerator and denominator respectively.
	- 0 if the degree of the denominator is larger than the degree of the numerator.
	- $+\infty$ or $-\infty$ if the degree of the numerator is larger than the degree of the denominator.
		- If the degree of the numerator is one larger than the degree of the denominator, the asymptote is $\frac{a}{c}x$, where $a$ and $c$ are the coefficients of the term with the highest degree in the numerator and denominator respectively.
- If you have a function $\frac{c}{f(x)}$ where $c$ is a constant, if $f(x)$ goes to positive or negative infinity as x approaches infinity, the limit of $\frac{c}{f(x)}$ as x approaches positive or negative infinity is 0.
- Limits at positive and negative infinity need to be considered separately. For example, if you have $f(x)=\frac{5}{1+e^x}$, $$\lim_{x\to+\infty}f(x)=0\text{ BUT }\lim_{x\to-\infty}f(x)=5$$
- We can evaluate rational expressions by looking at their relative magnitudes. For example, here is a list of nine functions, ordered by the least magnitude to the greatest (which one grows the fastest when x approaches infinity) $$7e,15\ln x,10\sqrt x,9x,4x^{1.5},\sqrt{x^4-3x},2^x-x,e^x,100^x$$
	- As a rule of thumb: constant functions grow the slowest, then log functions (sorted by their base), then power functions (sorted by their power), then exponential functions (sorted by their base) grow the fastest.

## Key Takeaways

Mathematically, a horizontal asymptote is defined when the following statements are true, for a finite number $b$: $$\lim_{x\to +\infty}f(x)\text{ or }\lim_{x\to -\infty}f(x)=b$$

Limits at positive and negative infinity need to be considered separately.

We can evaluate rational expressions by looking at their relative magnitudes. For example, here is a list of nine functions, ordered by the least magnitude to the greatest (which one grows the fastest when x approaches infinity) $$7e,15\ln x,10\sqrt x,9x,4x^{1.5},\sqrt{x^4-3x},2^x-x,e^x,100^x$$
- As a rule of thumb: constant functions grow the slowest, then log functions (sorted by their base), then power functions (sorted by their power), then exponential functions (sorted by their base) grow the fastest.

## Questions

