Date: 08-14-2023

## Raw Notes

- If the function approaches an x-value from *both* sides and results in the same value, then the limit exists at that x-value.
	- Numerically, if the limit approached from the left is $\lim_{x\to a^{-}}f(x)$ and the limit approached from the right is $\lim_{x\to a^{+}}f(x)$, the limit exists if the following equality holds: $$\lim_{x\to a^{-}}f(x)=\lim_{x\to a^{+}}f(x)$$
	- There are other ways in which the limit does not exist.
		- If there is a vertical asymptote, the limit does not exist.
		- If the function value can't be "approached" whatsoever, the limit doesn't exist.
		- If the function "oscillates infinitely", then the limit doesn't exist because it doesn't "approach" a value. 
- 

## Key Takeaways

From graphs, we can estimate limits by looking at what it approaches from the left and the right.

There are four main ways in which a limit cannot exist.
- If the limit from the left does not equal the limit from the right, the limit does not exist. Mathematically, this is $$\lim_{x\to a^{-}}f(x)=\lim_{x\to a^{+}}f(x)$$
- If there is a vertical asymptote, the limit does not exist.
- If the x-value being approached is not in the domain, the limit does not exist. For example: $$\lim_{x\to -2}\sqrt{x},\ \lim_{x\to0^{-}}\sqrt x\text{ are both DNE}$$
- If the function "oscillates infinitely", then the limit doesn't exist. For example: $$\lim_{x\to 0}\sin\frac{1}{x}$$
	- Extra note: Funnily, $\lim_{x\to 0}x\sin\frac{1}{x}$ exists. Here's how to solve it: The domain of the sine function is $[-1,1]$. Therefore, the following inequality holds: $$-1\leq\sin\frac{1}{x}\leq1$$
	- Now, multiply everything by x, and you get this: $$-x\leq x\sin\frac{1}{x}\leq x$$
	- Notice, however, that the limit is as x goes to 0: therefore, the equality can be as follows: $$0\leq x\sin\frac{1}{x}\leq0$$
	- Therefore, the *only* value that $x\sin\frac{1}{x}$ can be as x approaches 0 is 0.
## Questions

