Date: 08-16-2023
## Raw Notes

- Numerical data (tables) can often provide insight into likely behavior of a function
- Tables do not give a COMPLETE picture and can lead to false assumptions and errors.
- For example, if a table is given by the following:

| x | 1 | 3 | 5 | 7 | 9 |
| - | - | - | - | - | - |
| y | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 |
- One might assume this table is linear, and assume all the following statements are true:
	- $\lim_{x\to 5}f(x)=4$
		- This statement is not necessarily true. What if the function was discontinuous at $x=5$? The left and right limits might not be equal, and hence the limit might not exist.
	- $f(6)>f(5)$
		- This statement might not be true. What if we defined $f(6)=-100$?
	- $f(x)=2.5$ somewhere on the interval $(1,3)$
		- This statement is only true (by the intermediate value theorem) if the function is continuous over the entire interval $(1,3)$. If it is discontinuous, it could start decreasing starting from $x=1$, but then suddenly jump to $f(3)=3$.
	- $f(x)$ is linear
		- It might seem so, but we could define other values between these x-values to make it not so: for example, $f(2)=-100$, $f(8)=5$, etc.
	- $f(x)$ is increasing
		- It might not be so! For example, it could start decreasing from $x=1$ but jump to $f(3)=3$ at $x=3$.
- In fact, of all the above statements, only the first and the third must be true if we knew $f(x)$ was continuous.
- Even so, questions usually ask for what a table *supports*, not *guarantees*. For example, if a table shows x values getting closer and closer to 2 from the left and right, and the values are getting closer and closer but not actually exactly equal to 5, we can't *guarantee* that the limit is 5 (it might go wonky in the middle, like $\frac{\sin x}{x}$ close to 0), but we can say that the table certainly *supports* that the limit is 5.
## Key Takeaways

We can hypothesize possible behaviors of a function from a table, but we cannot guarantee it. Conclusions that may seem plausible may have edge cases that make the conclusion false.

However, on the exam, a question might ask what the table *supports*, not *guarantees*.
## Questions

Noone.