Date: **CHANGE THIS**

## Raw Notes

- Before introducing context, we just find values such as $f'(2)$ or derivative functions such as $g'(x)$. Well, what about real-world scenarios? 
- For example, let's say we have a problem that says this: The number of customers inside a store $t$ hours after opening can be modeled by the differentiable function $P(t)$. $P(1)=40$ and $P(3)=48$. Approximate $P'(2)$ and *include units of measure*.
    - Estimating the derivative is pretty easy: use a difference quotient. $$P'(2)\approx \frac{P(3)-P(1)}{3-1}=\frac{P(3)-P(1)}{2}=4$$
    - Now, to include units. Remember that the derivative is the rate of change. In this context, $P(t)$ represents the number of customers in the store. This means that $P'(t)$ represents the rate at which customers are going in the shop. $t$ is measured in hours, and so we can interpret $P'(t)$ as the number of customers going into the shop, measured by customers per hour. This means that, at $t=2$, there are approximately $4$ customers going into the shop per hour.
- In general, the units of the derivative of $f(x)$ should be the units of the vertical axis ($f(x)$) "per" the units of the horizontal axis ($x$). In the previous example, $t$ was measured in hours, and $P(t)$ was measured in customers. Therefore, we can write the units as customers per hour. Easy!
- We have to realize that the derivative does not represent an actual functional value, a total, or an average, but a rate of change. When a question asks for the interpretation of $f'(c)$, for a constant $c$, it should be something along the lines of "The rate of change of \[unit of f(c)\] at $t=c$".
- When interpreting a derivative, include "The rate...", context, units, and "at t or x=..."
    - The "interpreting a derivative" template is this: "The \[$f(t)$ in context\] is \[increasing/decreasing\] at a *rate* of \[$|f'(c)|$ with units\] at $t=$\[time with units\]"
- We can also interpret the rate of a rate (second derivative).
- In general, the units of the second derivative of $f(x)$ should be the units of the vertical axis "per" the units of the horizontal axis *"per" the units of the horizontal axis.* Notice that the units of the horizontal axis was repeated twice. For example, the acceleration of a car could be described as $3$ miles per hour per hour.
- Using the "interpreting a derivative" template, we can interpret something like this: The *rate* that people enter a large amusement park, in *people per hour*, can be modeled by the function $P(t)=27t+2\sin \pi t$ where $t$ is measured in hours. Find $P'(2)$ and interpret the meaning of this value in context of this value.
    - Finding $P'(2)$ is trivial: the answer is $27$. To interpret this, we can write: "The rate that people enter the large amusement park is increasing at a rate of 27 people per hour per hour at $t=2$ hours."

## Key Takeaways



## Questions

