Date: **CHANGE THIS**
## Problems

1. The area of a triangle is increasing at a rate of 6 inches squared per second and its base is decreasing at a rate of 2 inches/second. What is the rate of change of the height of the triangle when the height is 10 inches and the base is 4 inches?

Let's define some variables first. Let the base of the triangle be $b$ and the height of the triangle be $h$. The area of the triangle is $A$. Before we write an equation relating these three variables, we can first write the values we know. 

We are differentiating with respect to $t$. Then, we know the following: $$\frac{dA}{dt}=6\ \frac{\text{inches}^2}{\text{second}},\ \frac{db}{dt}=-2\ \frac{\text{inches}}{\text{second}}$$
We also know that after we've differentiated our equation, we should plug in the following values: $$h=10\ \text{inches}, b=4\ \text{inches}$$
The equation for the area of a triangle is $A=\frac{1}{2}bh$. Differentiate with respect to t: $$\frac{dA}{dt}=\frac{d}{dt}\left[\frac{1}{2}bh\right]=\frac{1}{2}\frac{d}{dt}bh$$
We use the product rule here. $$\frac{dA}{dt}=\frac{1}{2}\left(b\frac{dh}{dt}+h\frac{db}{dt}\right)$$
We are now finished with differentiating. We want to solve for $\frac{dh}{dt}$, so let's plug in the values that we know: $$6\ \frac{\text{inches}^2}{\text{second}}=\frac{1}{2}\left((4\ \text{inches})\frac{dh}{dt}+(10\ \text{inches})\left(-2\ \frac{\text{inches}}{\text{second}}\right)\right)$$
$$6\ \frac{\text{inches}^2}{\text{second}}=(2\ \text{inches})\frac{dh}{dt}-\left(10\ \frac{\text{inches}^2}{\text{second}}\right)$$
$$16\ \frac{\text{inches}^2}{\text{second}}=(2\ \text{inches})\frac{dh}{dt}\Rightarrow\frac{dh}{dt}=8\frac{\text{inches}}{\text{second}}$$

Therefore, the height is increasing at a rate of 8 inches per second.

___
2. A drone is hovering directly over a target. An action figure is deployed from the drone with a parachute and falls vertically at a rate of 5 ft/sec. An observer 400 ft away from the target is watching the figure fall. At what rate is the angle of elevation between the observer and the figure changing when the altitude of the figure is 300 ft?

Let's first define some variables. Let $h$ be the height of the action figure and let $\theta$ be the angle of elevation between the observer and the figure respectively. We know the following derivatives: $$\frac{dh}{dt}=-5\frac{\text{ft}}{\text{sec}}$$
We wish to find the following: $$\frac{d\theta}{dt}$$
We can also derive $\theta$. This scenario is a 3-4-5 triangle, scaled up by 100. Therefore, the angle is $\arctan \frac{3}{4}$. We can now write the variables that we know (apply only after differentiation is done): $$\theta=\arctan\frac{3}{4},h=300\ \text{ft}$$
Note that the following relation is true: $$\theta=\arctan\frac{h}{400}$$
Differentiate with respect to $t$: $$\frac{d\theta}{dt}=\frac{1}{1+\left(\frac{h}{400}\right)^2}\cdot\frac{1}{400}\cdot\frac{dh}{dt}$$
How convenient: $\frac{d\theta}{dt}$ is on the left side, isolated already. Plug in known values to find it: $$\frac{d\theta}{dt}=\frac{1}{1+\left(\frac{3}{4}\right)^2}\cdot\frac{1}{400}\cdot(-5)$$
Leading to the final answer of: $$\frac{d\theta}{dt}=\boxed{-\frac{1}{125}\ \text{rad/sec}}$$
___
3. The radius of a circle is increasing at a nonzero rate, and at a certain instant the rate of increase in the area of the circle is numerically twice the rate of increase in its circumference. At this instant, the radius of the circle is...

This is a little twist on the classic related rates problem. However, if $A$ is the area and $C$ is the circumference, we know that the following is true: $$\frac{dA}{dt}=2\frac{dC}{dt}$$
We don't know the values of these derivatives, but we should end up with an equation in terms of $r$. Let's differentiate $A=\pi r^2$ first: $$\frac{dA}{dt}=2\pi r\frac{dr}{dt}$$
Now let's differentiate $C=2\pi r$: $$\frac{dC}{dt}=2\pi\frac{dr}{dt}$$
Let's substitute these two values into our original equation: $$\cancel{2\pi} r\cancel{\frac{dr}{dt}}=2\left(\cancel{2\pi}\cancel{\frac{dr}{dt}}\right)\Rightarrow \boxed{r=2}$$


## Key Takeaways



## Questions

