Date: **CHANGE THIS**

## Raw Notes

- For most functions, if we zoom in close enough, the function will look linear, and will have approximately the slope of the tangent line at that point.
- This means that, to approximate a value that is close to $x=c$, you can get the tangent line at that point, and use that tangent line as an approximation.
- How would this look like? Well, we will try approximating $\sqrt{122}$.
    - Notice that this is very close to $\sqrt{121}$. Differentiating $f(x)=\sqrt x$ yields $\frac{1}{2\sqrt x}$, and the slope of the tangent line at $x=121$ is $\frac{1}{2\sqrt{121}}=\frac{1}{22}$.
    - The *equation* of the tangent line at $x=121$ is $y=\frac{1}{22}(x-121)+11$. This means that, for $x$-values close to $x=121$, $f(x)\approx\frac{1}{22}(x-121)+11$. We can plug in $x=122$ to approximate $f(122)$: $$f(122)\approx\frac{1}{22}(122-121)+11=11\frac{1}{22}\approx11.04545$$
    - The actual value of $\sqrt{122}$ is 11.04536, and our approximation was only off by 0.00009. Decent!
- Sometimes, we'd also want to know if our approximation was higher or lower than the actual value. For example, in our approximation of $\sqrt{122}$, the value was higher. We can actually determine if it's higher or lower by checking if the derivative is increasing or decreasing. For example, in $\sqrt x$, the function gets less and less steep as $x$ increases: however, the slope of a tangent line always stays constant. This means that, as $x$ gets bigger and bigger and farther and farther away from $x=121$, then the approximation will get worse and start getting larger and larger than the actual functional value. For example, let's use our approximation for $f(x)$ to approximate $\sqrt{21637}$: $$f(21637)\approx\frac{1}{22}(21637-121)+11=989$$
- Now, what's the actual value of $\sqrt{21637}$ ? Punching it into a calculator, we get $147.095...$ yikes! We were way off!
- In general, this "linear" approximation works best with values close to the point of tangency, which was why 122 worked best with 121, but 21637 didn't.

## Key Takeaways



## Questions

