1. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to factor the numerator and to see if terms cancel out. $$\lim_{x\to-2}\frac{x^2+6x+8}{x+2}=\lim_{x\to-2}\frac{\left(x+4\right)\left(x+2\right)}{x+2}=\lim_{x\to-2}x+4=2$$
2. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to factor the numerator and the denominator and to see if the terms cancel out. $$\lim _{x\to 3}\frac{x^2-9}{x^2+4x-21}=\lim _{x\to 3}\frac{\left(x-3\right)\left(x+3\right)}{\left(x-3\right)\left(x+7\right)}=\lim _{x\to 3}\frac{x+3}{x+7}=\frac{3}{5}$$
3. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to factor out the greatest common factor from the numerator and the denominator and see if terms cancel out. $$\lim _{x\to 0}\frac{2x^2-5x}{4x^3+7x}=\lim _{x\to 0}\frac{2x-5}{4x^2+7}=-\frac{5}{7}$$
4. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to factor the numerator and denominator and see if terms cancel out. In this scenario, however, even though the terms DO cancel out, the limit does not exist due to unbounded behavior. $$\lim _{x\to 6}\frac{x^2-4x-12}{x^2-12x+36}=\lim _{x\to 6}\frac{\left(x-6\right)\left(x+2\right)}{\left(x-6\right)\left(x-6\right)}=\lim _{x\to 6}\frac{x+2}{x-6}=\frac{8}{0}=\infty $$
5. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to multiply the numerator and denominator by the conjugate of the numerator, and see if terms can cancel. $$\lim _{x\to 5}\frac{\sqrt{x+4}-3}{x-5}=\lim _{x\to 5}\frac{\sqrt{x+4}-3}{x-5}\cdot \frac{\sqrt{x+4}+3}{\sqrt{x+4}+3}=\lim _{x\to 5}\frac{x-5}{\left(x-5\right)\left(\sqrt{x+4}+3\right)}=\frac{1}{6}$$
6. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to find a way to rewrite the unknown limit in terms of the known limit using appropriate limit laws: in this case, it's scalar multiplication. $$\lim _{x\to 0}\frac{\sin x}{3x}=\lim _{x\to 0}\frac{\sin x}{x}\cdot \frac{1}{3}=\frac{1}{3}\cdot 1=\frac{1}{3}$$
7. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to find a way to factor the denominator and rewrite the unknown limit in terms of the known limit using appropriate limit laws: in this case, it's function multiplication. $$\lim _{x\to 1}\frac{2xf\left(x\right)}{x^2+5x-6}=\lim _{x\to 1}\frac{2xf\left(x\right)}{\left(x+6\right)\left(x-1\right)}=\lim _{x\to 1}\frac{2x}{x+6}\cdot \lim _{x\to 1}\frac{f\left(x\right)}{x-1}=\frac{2}{7}\cdot 4=\frac{8}{7}$$
8. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to find a way to factor the numerator and the denominator and see if terms cancel out. $$\lim _{x\to 3}\frac{x^2-5x+6}{x^2-9}=\lim _{x\to 3}\frac{\left(x-3\right)\left(x-2\right)}{\left(x-3\right)\left(x+3\right)}=\frac{3-2}{3+3}=\frac{1}{6}$$
9. The appropriate mathematical procedure here is to factor out the greatest common factor from the numerator and the denominator and see if terms cancel out. $$\lim _{x\to 0}\frac{6x^4-5x^2}{2x^3+10x^2}=\lim _{x\to 0}\frac{6x^2-5}{2x+10}=-\frac{1}{2}$$
10. There are two ways to go about the problem: I will explain the traditional, calculus way first.
	1. We first treat the absolute value function as a piecewise. After dividing by $x-5$, we have the following piecewise: $$f(x)=\left\{\begin{array}{ll}-1 & \text{if } x < 5 \\ 1 & \text{if } x > 5\end{array}\right.$$ After that, we can evaluate the "first part" of this piecewise to evaluate the left hand limit: $-1$. $$\lim _{x\to 5^-}\frac{\left|x-5\right|}{x-5}=-1$$
	2. Another way, would be to recognize this as the $\mathrm{sign}(x)$ function shifted right by 5 units, and undefined at $x=5$. We know, therefore, that to the left of $x=5$ is $-1$, while to the right of $x=5$ is $1$. Therefore, the left hand limit is $-1$. It is recommended to use the more rigorous approach above, however, on the exam.
 