Date: 08-11-2023

## Raw Notes

- Graphically, if a spot on the graph is covered, you can still predict its value based on intuition. In calculus, however, maybe you can’t actually evaluate the value at that point. You have to “walk” closer to that point and see what it “approaches.” This is the limit.
- If there is a value b, the limit can be expressed verbally as “As $x$ approaches $b$, $f(x)$ approaches \[so and so\]”
- If there is a value b, the limit can be expressed mathematically as: $$ \lim_{x\to b}f(x)=a $$
	- This can be verbally read as “The limit of $f(x)$ as $x$ approaches $b$ is $a$”.
- Basically the limit says, if the x coordinate approach a value from the left and the right, then if y coordinate is the same from both directions, a limit at that x-coordinate exists.
- Even though a function value might not equal its limit, the limit is where you are “anticipating” the y-value to be.
	- For example, if you had the graph $f(x)=x+2$ with the exception that $f(3)=100$, the limit as $f(x)$ as $x$ approaches 3 is still 5, not 100.
- One last way to represent limits are tabular methods. This is making a table of x values and y values close to, and at, the x-value for a function $f(x)$. Even if the function at that value is undefined, we can look at the table and approximate the limit.

## Key Takeaways

- A limit of a function is the y-value the function gets arbitrarily close to but may not reach.
- Limits can be estimated by using graphs.
- Limits can be expressed using mathematical notation, like so:  $$ \lim_{x\to b}f(x)=a $$
- The limit of a function might not be equal to the value of the function. The value of the function could be undefined while the limit of the function could be defined.
- The concept of the limit can be examined through multiple representations: verbally, mathematically, tabular(ly), and graphically. They can also be connected between two or more representations.

## Questions

- In the tabular examples in the video, there were a few examples where, if the limit was approached from the left, it would equal a value a, but when approached from the right, it would equal a value $b$. If the limit is different from both directions, how would the limit be defined? Is the limit defined? For example, the $\operatorname{sign}(x)$ function is defined as the “sign” of a number x (whether it is positive or negative). It seems to “jump” from -1 to 1 at $x=0$, so what is the limit of the function as x approaches 0? If the limit doesn’t exist, would that function be called a “bad” function, or some other mathematical name?
- Are there scenarios where the function value AND the limit aren’t defined? For example, the function $\frac{1}{x^2}$ seems to approach an infinite value when x approaches 0.