Date: **CHANGE THIS**

## Raw Notes

- The Extreme Value Theorem states that, if $f$ is a continuous function on an interval $[a,b]$, then $f$ has a maximum and a minimum value. For example, if $f(x)=x^2$, on the interval $[-2,1]$, the maximum value is $f(-2)=4$ and the minimum value is $f(0)=0$.
    - Keep in mind that the Extreme Value Theorem doesn't tell you *where* the maximum/minimum is, it just tells you that it exists.
- Sometimes the EVT will assert that, there is a value $c$ on the interval $[a,b]$ such that $f(c)\geq f(x)$ for all $x$ on $[a,b]$. What does this mean?
    - Well, think of $c$ as the input. Now, think about $f(c)$ as the *output* that is *greater than or equal to* any other output the function can have. That's what this means.
    - You can write a similar inequality, $f(c)\leq f(x)$ for minimum values.
- Note that there may exist multiple $c$ values. For example, let's say you have $f(x)=100$. Represented graphically, this is a horizontal line at $y=100$. Some students might say that there is no maximum/minimum value since it's the same value everywhere.
- But the teacher makes a point. If everybody in his class got a 100 on their test, then somebody asked what was the maximum score that anybody got, he would reply 100. If somebody asked what the minimum score was, he would also reply 100.
- Now, I'll define some terms.
    - Maxima/minima: pretty self-explanatory.
    - Extrema: a maxima/minima value.
    - Local extrema: if you look very closely at the left and the right points, and they both are lower than the point downwards, it's a local maximum. Basically, if you're higher than the points around you, then it's a local maximum. And do the same vice versa for local minimum.
    - Global/absolute extrema: Now, let's take the endpoint of an interval. Let's say it's a maximum on that interval. There's no left/right point to compare to, so it's an absolute maximum. Vice versa.
        - Note that a relative extrema CAN be an absolute extrema, it just has to be the maximum/minimum value on that ENTIRE interval.

## Key Takeaways



## Questions

