Date: 08-17-2023

## Raw Notes

- We can often use algebraic manipulation to help determine limits.
- We can divide common factors within rational functions when evaluating limits.
- Note: We learn in BC what the question is asking. AB is when you're being explicitly told what to do, while BC is understanding the question, recognizing the technique that has to be used, and applying that technique.
- We can determine limits of rational functions by using algebraic manipulation.
	- For example, consider this limit of arational function: $$\lim_{x\to-2}\frac{x^2+6x+8}{x+2}=\frac{\lim_{x\to-2}(x^2+6x+8)}{\lim_{x\to-2}(x+2)}=\frac{0}{0}????$$
	- As you can see, the division limit law does not work in this case, because $\frac{0}{0}$ is an interdeterminant form. This means we have to figure out another way to solve for the limit.
	- What if we factored the numerator? Then, we'd have the following: $$\lim_{x\to-2}\frac{(x+4)(x+2)}{x+2}=\lim_{x\to-2}(x+4)=2$$
	- Therefore, the limit of this rational expression as x approaches -2 is 2.
- We can also determine that from this, in most cases $\frac{0}{0}$ causes a hole in the graph.
- Notice that the limit doesn't *always* have to exist when you factor the numerator or denominator. For example: $$\lim_{x\to 6}\frac{x^2-4x-12}{x^2-12x+36}=\lim_{x\to 6}\frac{x+2}{x-6}=\frac{8}{0}=\infty$$
- Sometimes, in some equations, factoring isn't going to work. For example: $$\lim_{x\to 5}\frac{\sqrt{x+4}-3}{x-5}$$
	- To solve this, get the conjugate of the numerator. $$\lim_{x\to 5}\left(\frac{\sqrt{x+4}-3}{x-5}\cdot\frac{\sqrt{x+4}+3}{\sqrt{x+4}+3}\right)=\lim_{x\to 5}\frac{x-5}{(x-5)(\sqrt{x+4}+3)}$$
	- We can now simplify by dividing the numerator and denominator by $x-5$. $$\lim_{x\to 5}\frac{1}{\sqrt{x+4}+3}=\frac{1}{6}$$
- There is another kind of problem where we are given a limit and we are being asked to find another limit. For example: $$\text{Given that }\lim_{x\to 0}\frac{\sin x}{x}=1\text{, find }\lim_{x\to 0}\frac{\sin x}{3x}.$$
	- We can rewrite the limit we are trying to find by factoring out $\frac{1}{3}$. $$\lim_{x\to 0}\left(\frac{\sin x}{x}\cdot\frac{1}{3}\right)=\frac{1}{3}\cdot 1=\frac{1}{3}$$

## Key Takeaways



## Questions

