Date: 08-24-2023

## Raw Notes

- There are three main types of discontinuities. The first is a discontinuity due to a vertical asymptote. The second is a jump discontinuity, where the left handed limit is not equal to the right hand limit (but it's not a vertical asymptote). The third is a removable discontinuity, informally known as a "hole"
	- An example of a discontinuity due to vertical asymptote would be at $x=0$ in the function $\frac{1}{0}$.
	- An example of a jump discontinuity would be $\mathrm{sign}(x)$ (aka $\frac{|x|}{x}$) at $x=0$.
	- An example of a removable discontinuity would be at $x=0$ in the function $\frac{x^2}{x}$.
- For my own purposes, I've made a function that expresses all 3 of these discontinuities. $$f(x)=\frac{x\left|x\right|+3\left|x\right|}{x^{3}-9x}$$
	- It expresses a removable discontinuity at $x=-3$. The limit as $x$ approaches -3 is $\frac{1}{6}$.
	- It has a vertical asymptote discontinuity at $x=3$. The limit as $x$ approaches 3 does not exist.
	- It has a jump discontinuity at $x=0$. The limit as $x$ approaches 0 does not exist.
- Usually, the discontinuities happen because of the following:
	- Removable discontinuity: $f(x)$ turns into an interdeterminant value, usually of the form $\frac{0}{0}$. It can also happen when the limit exists but does not equal to the function value.
	- Vertical asymptote discontinuity: The denominator of $f(x)$ goes to 0 while the numerator does not.
	- Jump discontinuity: Usually happens because of some sort of piecewise function (including $|x|$)
- We can analyze the types of discontinuities of piecewise functions by looking at the pieces themselves, and the connections between them. As an example, take this function: $$f(x)=\begin{cases}x^{-1} & \text{if } x<3 \\ 2 & \text{if } x > 3\end{cases}$$
	- We first analyze the first piece. We know that this function has a vertical asymptote at $x=0$.
	- Now let's look at the second piece. The piece itself does not have any discontinuity whatsoever
	- Now let's look at the connection between the pieces. We try to check if $\lim_{x\to -3^-}f(x)=\lim_{x\to -3^+}f(x)$ and find that $3^{-1}\neq2$, so there is a jump discontinuity at $x=3$.
		- Note that if the first piece was equal to the second piece (i.e. $\lim_{x\to -3^-}f(x)=\lim_{x\to -3^+}f(x)$) at $x=3$, there would still be a removable discontinuity because $f(x)$ is not defined at $x=3$.
- There is one additional type of discontinuity: oscillating discontinuity. For example, try graphing $\sin\frac{1}{x}$.

## Key Takeaways

Three main types of discontinuities: Vertical asymptote, jump discontinuity, and removable discontinuity.
- Vertical asymptote is when the function goes to positive or negative infinity.
- Jump discontinuity is when the left handed limit does not equal the right handed limit.
- Removable discontinuity is when there is a "hole" in the graph (usually caused by $\frac{0}{0}$, or the limit not being equal to the function value).

We can analyze the types of discontinuities of piecewise functions by looking at the pieces themselves, and the connections between them.

In order to find all points of discontinuity:
- Graph the function if a graph is not given
- For data given in a table, do not assume anything other than what you are given.
- For functions given analytically, graph the function.
- For piecewise functions, consider each piece and the connections, then graph the function.
- For verbal descriptions, consider every descriptive word carefully and graph the function!

There is one additional type of discontinuity: oscillating discontinuity. For example, try graphing $\sin\frac{1}{x}$.

## Questions

