Date: 08-**CHANGE THIS**-2023

## Raw Notes

- There are three conditions that must be satisfied for a function to be continuous at a point $(c,f(c))$.
	1. $f(c)$ exists.
	2. $\lim_{x\to c}f(x)$ exists. (check the left and right sided limits)
	3. $f(c)=\lim_{x\to c}f(x)$
- You can determine if a function is continuous at $x=c$ by looking at its graph.
	- To satisfy the first condition, see if a black dot is at $x=c$ (or if the curve goes through but does not have a hole at $x=c$).
	- To satisfy the second condition, check if the function approached from the left is equal to the function approached from the right.
	- To satisfy the third condition, check if the results from the first and second step are equal.
- Sometimes a question might ask you whether a statement could be true or not based on the continuity of a function. For example, if $g(x)$ is continuous at $x=5$ and $g(5)=2$, determine whether the following statements are always, sometimes, or never true:
	- $\lim_{x\to 5^+}g(x)=2, \lim_{x\to 5}g(x)=2$
		- These two statements are always true because of the definition of continuity.
	- $\lim_{x\to 5}g(x)=1$
		- This can never be true because, by the definition of continuity, the limit must equal the function value, which is 2, not 1.
	- $\lim_{x\to 5}g(x)$ does not exist.
		- This can never be true because, by the definition of continuity, the limit must exist at $x=5$.
	- $\lim_{x\to2}g(x)$ does not exist
		- This could sometimes be true. We don't know about the continuity of $g(x)$ at $x=2$, so we can't draw any conclusion.
	- $g(x)$ has a vertical asymptote at $x=5$
		- This isn't true because $g(x)$ is continuous at $x=5$.
	- $g(x)$ has a hole at $x=5$
		- This isn't true because $g(x)$ is continuous at $x=5$.
	- $g(x)$ has a jump discontinuity at $x=1$.
		- This could sometimes be true. We don't know about the continuity of $g(x)$ at $x=1$, so we can't draw any conclusion.
- In an AP exam, continuity questions on the multiple choice will probably be graphed or shown in a piecewise form. In the FRQ, when asked for the continuity at a point, you must prove all three statements of continuity to get the point.
## Key Takeaways

There are three conditions that must be satisfied for a function to be continuous at a point $(c,f(c))$.
	1. $f(c)$ exists.
	2. $\lim_{x\to c}f(x)$ exists. (check the left and right sided limits)
	3. $f(c)=\lim_{x\to c}f(x)$

You can determine if a function is continuous at $x=c$ by looking at its graph.
- To satisfy the first condition, see if a black dot is at $x=c$ (or if the curve goes through but does not have a hole at $x=c$).
- To satisfy the second condition, check if the function approached from the left is equal to the function approached from the right.
- To satisfy the third condition, check if the results from the first and second step are equal.

If you know a function is continuous at a specific x-value, the function cannot be discontinuous at that x-value (one-sided limits, double-sided limit, and function value must all exist and be equal), but may or may not be discontinuous for other x-values.

If you know a function is discontinuous at a specific x-value, the function value may or may not exist at that x-value and the one sided limits or double sided limit may or may not exist at that x-value. In addition, if the function and limits exist at that x-value, they are not equal. The function also has some type of discontinuity at that x-value: removable, jump, vertical asymptote, or oscillation.

In an AP exam, continuity questions on the multiple choice will probably be graphed or shown in a piecewise form. In the FRQ, when asked for the continuity at a point, you must prove all three statements of continuity to get the point.
## Questions

