Date: 08-**CHANGE THIS**-2023

## Raw Notes

- The intermediate value theorem (IVT), according to the AP Calculus Course and Exam Description (CED), is:
	- If $f$ is a continuous function on the closed interval $[a,b]$ and $d$ is a number between $f(a)$ and $f(b)$, then the Intermediate Value Theorem guarantees that there is at least one number $c$ between $a$ and $b$ such that $f(c)=d$.
		- In my own words: 
			1. First, draw a wiggly line without picking up your pencil. Call this $f(x)$. 
			2. Draw two lines $x=a$ and $x=b$. It should intersect $f(x)$ in two points. 
			3. Take those two points and draw two horizontal lines going through each point respectively. 
			4. Draw a horizontal line between those horizontal lines.
			5. It should intersect the function at least once between $x=a$ and $x=b$.
		- There is also another explanation for this. For example, try drawing the points $(-1,-1)$ and $(-1,1)$. Draw a square connecting these points. Try connecting these two points without picking up your pencil, and *without crossing the line $y=0$ (the x-axis)*. It's not possible, is it? This is because $y=0$ is between $y=-1$ and $y=1$, and by the Intermediate Value Theorem it MUST cross $y=0$ at some point if you didn't pick up your pencil.
		- In the teacher's own words: If the function is continuous from $a$ to $b$, there's no way the function can get from $f(a)$ to $f(b)$ without taking on every y-value between them at least once.
- The IVT is the first of three "existence theorems" in the AP Calc BC course. The other two are the Mean Value Theorem and the Extreme Value Theorem.

## Key Takeaways

The intermediate value theorem (IVT), according to the AP Calculus Course and Exam Description (CED), is:
- If $f$ is a continuous function on the closed interval $[a,b]$ and $d$ is a number between $f(a)$ and $f(b)$, then the Intermediate Value Theorem guarantees that there is at least one number $c$ between $a$ and $b$ such that $f(c)=d$.
- If the function is continuous from $a$ to $b$, there's no way the function can get from $f(a)$ to $f(b)$ without taking on every y-value between them at least once.

## Questions

