Date: October 2023

## Raw Notes

- To take the derivative, we write $f'(x)$ or $\frac{dy}{dx}$. But what if we wanted to take the derivative of the derivative? For example, the rate of change of the rate of change is the rate of change of speed, which is acceleration. We can write the "second" derivative as $f''(x)$ or $\frac{d^2y}{dx^2}$ by differentiating the derivative. For example, the derivative of $x^3$ is $3x^2$, and the derivative of $3x^2$ is $6x$. Therefore, the second derivative of $x^3$ is $6x$.
- To write higher order derivatives such as the third derivative, we write $f'''(x)$ or $\frac{d^3y}{dx^3}$. To write the nth derivative, we write $f^{(n)}(x)$ or $\frac{d^ny}{dx^n}$.
- Note that we should NOT interpret $\frac{d^2y}{dx^2}$ as squaring the derivative. They are two very different things.
- It is important that we still apply the same differentiation rules when we take a higher order derivative. For example, when we differentiate $\sin x^2$, we get $2x\cos x^2$. We should recognize that, by taking the second derivative, we still need to apply the product rule and chain rule to $2x\cos x^2$.
- Some problems may seem daunting. For example, if $f(x)=4x^{87}+96e^{x-1}$, we might be asked to find $f^{(100)}(1)$. How on earth are we going to take 100 derivatives?
    - Well, these problems test your critical thinking skills. Let's look at the $4x^{87}$. Note that every time you take a derivative, that exponent is going to go down by 1 every time. So by the time we take 87 derivatives, that exponent is going to turn to 0, which makes the entire term a constant. Differentiating the 88th time turns it into 0. Therefore, the first term just goes to 0.
    - The second term is even easier. Using the chain rule, we see that the derivative of $96e^{x-1}$ is just itself, so no matter how many times we differentiate, the function is just going to be equals itself. Therefore, the second term is $96e^{x-1}$.
    - Plug in 1 to $0+96e^{x-1}$ yields 96, so $f^{(100)}(1)=96$.

## Key Takeaways



## Questions

